# ArtStore
The purpose of this project was to create a database hosted on SQL Server that simulated the information that would be tracked by an online store specializing in pieces of art.
The first task was deciding what tables would be needed and creating them in SQL Server. I chose to have four tables, the first of which would house customer data such as names, phone numbers, and email addresses. Then I wanted two more tables, one devoted to the artists featured on the site, and another focusing on the varied pieces of art offered on the site. The final table would track all of the customer purchases.

The next step was to generate all the data to populate the tables. Using Python and a Jupyter notebook, I generated a list of 10,000 random names, phone numbers, and email addresses. All of this data was then ported into the table that had been created in SQL Server. At this point I created a column in the table to generate customer numbers as each customer record was inserted into the table. Each cutomer number generated was unique, and I designated this column as the primary key of the customer table.

The process to generate a list of 100 artists for the artist table was very similar to what I did for the customer table. Again with Python and a Jupyter notebook I generated random names to assign to the artists, and also included each artists' style/medium they worked in as well as their city of birth. In the same notebook I generated 100 random titles for each piece of art, and assigned each piece to a particular artist. I had to be careful to match the style of each piece to the style that the piece's artist specialized in, according to the data I had already generated. Also included in the artwork table was the year that the piece was created and the price each piece sells for on the site. Before porting all of the data into SQL Server, I made sure that the artist table had a primary key comprised of the combination of the artists' first and last names. I also created a primary key in the artwork table based on the title of each piece, while creating a foreign key of the artists' name that referenced the primary key column in the artist table. Once that was done I ported all of the data into the two tables I had created in SQL Server for artists and artwork.

The final step involving Python was to create the data that would go into the purchases table in SQL Server. I wanted 30,000 transactions, and I wanted them all assigned randomly among the customers I created for the customer information table. I also assigned random dates to each purchase. The other two pieces of information in this table would be the title of the piece purchased, as well as the price for which it was purchased. I had to be careful to make sure I assigned the correct price to each piece purchased, dependent upon the price I had assigned to each piece in the artwork table. Since each purchase was assigned to specific customer numbers, I made the customer number column in this table a foreign key referencing the customer number column in the customer information table.

Now that all the data I wanted was in SQL Server, I went about creating queries, views, and stored procedures that returned important and interesting data. For instance, I created a stored procedure that determined a customer's preferred art style by analyzing all of their past purchases. I made another stored procedure that returns the running total amount spent on a customer by customer basis.

During the random generation of the 30,000 purchases, it so happened that some customer numbers did not end up having any purchases assigned to them. So, I created a view in the database that tells the user which customers have not made any purchases. There is also a view that returns the total amount spent for all customers that have made purchases.

Finally, I wanted to simulate how the database would change if any customer decided to change their information, such as updating their name, phone number, or email. I altered the customer table to make it a temporal table, at the same time creating a new table to track the history of all such changes.
